Hello everyone! In this tutorial, we will refactor our MakeShot function.
After this lesson, the logic will not change in our program, so you can view it on
fast forward, or skip this lesson altogether. The kind of refactoring is called the extract method.
We will essentially split our function into several functions to make the code more readable.
Let's start by creating the GetPlayerController function. It will return a pointer to the player controller.
Moving the code related to getting the controller into our function. Forgot to add the class name before the function.
Add the function declaration to the .h file. If the pointer to Player = nullptr, then the function returns nullptr,
that is, the controller does not exist any more. If the pointer to the player is valid,
then we return the pointer that the GetController <> function returns.
Now we can use this function. Let's create a local variable Controller.
And assign it the value that our function returns. And if the pointer is nullptr, then we exit the function.
Next, let's select the player's viewpoint as a separate method. We create an additional function.
It will return boolean for us. We call it GetPlayerViewPoint and it has two output parameters:
view location and view rotation, which are passed by reference. Add the function declaration to the .h file We
transfer all the code related to GetPlayerViewPoint to this function and also transfer the controller.
If the pointer to the controller is nullptr, then we must return false, because our function
returns a boolean. Remove local view location and view rotation. They are passed to our function by reference.
And add at the bottom return true; We replace the code with a call to our function.
Next step: let's highlight the GetSocketLocation method.
We only need its 3d coordinate. Therefore, we will create a function that will return FVector
and call it GetMuzzleWorldLocation. The function will return the position of the socket.
We can use the GetSocketLocation function
and get the socket position directly, without using the GetSocketTransform function.
Pass the socket name as a parameter and add it to the .h file.
And we replace the code by calling this function. We do this in two places.
And the local variable SocketTansform can be removed. We no longer use it.
And also delete the comment. Next, we create a function to get the trace start and tace end vectors.
It will also return boolean, let's call the function GetTraceData.
and the reference will return the start and end vectors. Add the function to the header file.
Let's move the code related to trace start and trace end into a new function. We also grab the GetPlayerViewpoint function.
We also forgot to check: if the GetPlayerViewpoint function returns false,
then we also pass false to the output.
And if everything is fine and the data from GetPlayerViewpoint has returned,
then we need to change the TraceStart and TraceEnd parameters. They are no longer local variables,
but variables by reference in our function. And at the end we add return true, call our function.
We need to create the variables that we want to get from this function: TraceStart and TraceEnd.
We pass these variables to the GetTraceData function and check:
if something went wrong in this function, that is, it returned false, we exit MakeShot.
It remains to create the last function for the block of code that directly does trace.
Let's call the function MakeHit.
And we pass the HitResult link and the constant link TraceStart and TraceEnd.
Don't forget to add it to the header file.
Let's move all the trace code into a new function.
We insert.
Accidentally grabbed GetTraceData. It should be in the main MakeShot function.
We call the MakeHit function. The first parameter is the HitResult that we want to get from this function.
and the second and third are TraceStart and TraceEnd.
A inside the MakeHit function we remove the local variable HitResult, because it is passed by reference.
Well, let's check the world pointer,
because our function is now in the protected section, purely theoretically, someone can call it from the heirs of the class,
if it were in the private section and called only from MakeShot, then it would be possible not to check the world
because MakeShot already checked. All. Thus, we have broken down our complex MakeShot function
into small functions and our code has become more readable.
Let's also clean up the logs. There is no more need for them and we will check that nothing is broken.
We start the game. We shoot. All traces are on target.
The spheres are displayed and we also hit the enemy. The refactoring was successful.